# HPC
Background: Platinum resistance of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) cannot currently be recognized by specific molecular biomarkers. We aimed to compare the predictive capacity of various models integrating MRI habitat, whole slide images (WSIs), and clinical parameters to predict platinum sensitivity in HGSOC patients.
Methods: A retrospective study involving 998 eligible patients from four hospitals was conducted. MRI habitats were clustered using K-means algorithm on multiparametric MRI. Following feature extraction and selection, a Habitat model was developed. Vision Transformer and multi-instance learning were trained to derive the patch-level prediction and WSI-level prediction on haematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained WSIs, respectively, forming a Pathology model. Logistic regression was used to create a Clinic model. A multimodal model integrating Clinic, Habitat, and Pathology (CHP) was constructed using Multi-Head Attention (MHA) and compared with the unimodal models and Ensemble multimodal models. The area under the curve (AUC) and integrated discrimination improvement (IDI) value were used to assess model performance and gains.
Results: In the internal validation cohort and the external test cohort, the Habitat model showed the highest AUCs (0.722 and 0.685) compared to the Clinic model (0.683 and 0.681) and the Pathology model (0.533 and 0.565), respectively. The AUCs (0.789 and 0.807) of the multimodal model interating CHP based on MHA were highest than those of any unimodal models and Ensemble multimodal models, with positive IDI values.
Conclusion: MRI-based habitat imaging showed potentials to predict platinum sensitivity in HGSOC patients. Multimodal integration of CHP based on MHA was helpful to improve prediction performance.
